Adding the RSELondonSouthEast_2024 blog (#37)
ImperialCollegeLondon/RSEBlog: docs/posts/rslondonsoutheast_2024.md

---

> date: 2021-11-22

Reviewer: This needs to change to the current date (or intended publication date?)

```suggestion
date: 2024-08-12
```

authors:
  - SaranjeetKaur
  - AdrianDAlessandro
  - alexdewar
  - HarmonicReflux
  - jamesturner246
  - TinyMarsh
  - Sahil590
  - dalonsoa
  - tsmbland
  - cc-a
  - dc2917
categories:

>   - Technology

Reviewer: This should be an Event category
```suggestion
  - Event
```

tags:

>   - Django
>   - Python
>   - Technology

Reviewer: I guess we should include relevant tags. Maybe these plus some about specific talk topics?
```suggestion
  - RSE
  - RSE Community
  - RSLondon
```

---

# The RSLondonSouthEast 2024 Workshop

![image](images/rslondonsoutheast_2024/ukri_logo.png)
![image](images/rslondonsoutheast_2024/rse_logo.png)

> Celebrating its fifth year, [the RSLondonSouthEast workshop returned] to Imperial College's South Kensington campus. [Imperial's RSE team] was well represented, with the event drawing RSEs and academics from across London and the South East of England. This year's conference was organised by [Jeremy Cohen], from Imperial College, and [Ilektra Christidi] from UCL. <!-- TODO: Check with Jeremy that this is true ;-) -->

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Celebrating its fifth year, [the RSLondonSouthEast workshop returned] to Imperial College London's South Kensington campus. [Imperial's RSE team] was well represented, with the event drawing RSEs and academics from across London and the South East of England. This year's conference was organised by [Jeremy Cohen], from Imperial, and [Ilektra Christidi] from UCL. <!-- TODO: Check with Jeremy that this is true ;-) -->
```

> [RSLondonSouthEast] (formerly RSLondon) is a [regional RSE Community], seeking to bring together those involved in developing and using research software. This includes anyone who writes code as part of their research, as well as those in formal Research Software Engineering roles. It aims to provide opportunities for networking and technical training through workshops, while also advocating for improved career models for RSEs.

Reviewer 3: So do we have 3 names? Imperial RS Community, RSLondon community, and the RSLondonSouthEast community workshop? That feels a little confusing

> [RSLondonSouthEast] (formerly RSLondon) is a [regional RSE Community], seeking to bring together those involved in developing and using research software. This includes anyone who writes code as part of their research, as well as those in formal Research Software Engineering roles. It aims to provide opportunities for networking and technical training through workshops, while also advocating for improved career models for RSEs.

Reviewer 4: There are two separate communities with different committees, one is local (to Imperial) and one regional:

 - Imperial Research Software Community - our local research software community at Imperial started in 2015.
 - Research Software London (known as RSLondon for short) - a regional research software community for London and the South East of England. It has a committee consisting of people from a number of different institutions.
 
RSLondonSouthEast is the name of RSLondon's annual workshop - not unlike RSECon is the name of the annual conference run by the Society of Research Software Engineering.

> [RSLondonSouthEast] (formerly RSLondon) is a [regional RSE Community], seeking to bring together those involved in developing and using research software. This includes anyone who writes code as part of their research, as well as those in formal Research Software Engineering roles. It aims to provide opportunities for networking and technical training through workshops, while also advocating for improved career models for RSEs.

Reviewer 3: Ok cool! Thanks for the clarification @jcohen02!

> As it has in previous years, the workshop continues to provide a welcoming and valuable platform for anyone involved in research software.

Reviewer 2: I feel the "as it has in previous years" is tautological - it's implied by saying the "workshop continues". Could just integrate this sentence in to the paragraph above?

[the RSLondonSouthEast workshop returned]: https://rslondon.ac.uk/rslondonsoutheast2024
[Imperial's RSE team]: https://www.imperial.ac.uk/admin-services/ict/self-service/research-support/rcs/service-offering/research-software-engineering/about-the-team
[Jeremy Cohen]: https://profiles.imperial.ac.uk/jeremy.cohen
[Ilektra Christidi]: https://profiles.ucl.ac.uk/8151
[RSLondonSouthEast]: https://rslondon.ac.uk
[regional RSE Community]: https://society-rse.org/community/regional-groups/

> <!-- more -->

Reviewer: I'd prefer to move this to just after the very first paragraph

## Keynote Presentation

> [Marion Weinzierl] from the [Institute of Computing for Climate Science] at the University of Cambridge presented the Keynote for the workshop: "Leading from within the research technical professionals community". She told the story of how the RSE movement evolved from small grassroots groups to having national and international career pathways for RSEs.

Author: I've gone with your suggestion for now. Happy to amend later if the concensus calls for it.

[^1]: Both [SocRSE] and [WHPC] provide mentoring programmes.

[Marion Weinzierl]: https://iccs.cam.ac.uk/about-marion-weinzierl
[Institute of Computing for Climate Science]: https://iccs.cam.ac.uk
[SocRSE]: https://society-rse.org/get-involved/mentoring-scheme/
[WHPC]: https://womeninhpc.org/community/mentoring

![IMG20240716103725](https://hackmd.io/_uploads/ryha0N5YA.jpg)
*Source: Marion Weinzierl presenting her keynote at RSLondonSouthEast 2024*

## Regional Research Software Communities

This workshop is a great example of the value that can be provided by [regional RSE groups](https://society-rse.org/community/regional-groups/). It gave the attendees the opportunity to connect with RSEs from other univiersities in the region. Below we've highlighted some people we met.

> [Diego Alonso Álvarez] is the RSE Team Lead at [Imperial College London]. A physicist by training with specialty in semiconductor nanostructures, he has led ICL's RSE team since 2021.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Diego Alonso Álvarez] is the RSE Team Lead at [Imperial College London]. A physicist by training with specialty in semiconductor nanostructures, he has led Imperial's RSE team since 2021.
```

ICL isn't an official acronym (I also personally really don't like it 😅), but is Diego someone we met? Didn't we already know him?

Reviewer 5: Good point. We do also plug our own team in a few places and mention @dalonsoa's talk + poster at the end, too.

[Sherman Lo] is an RSE at [Queen Mary University of London]. Sherman has an interest in computational statistics and machine larning and facilitates GPU programming using CUDA.

[Mahmoud Abdelrazek] is a Senior Research Data Consultant at [Advanced Research Computing Centre] [University College of London]. He is interested in building flexible and scalable data pipelines.

[Louise Bowler] is a Senior RSE at [King's College London]. Louise has an interest in sustainable software and data science, both in academia and government.

[Jamie Knight] is an [EPSRC] Research Software Engineering Fellow at the University of Sussex. For a number of years, he has been the maintainer and primary developer for [GeNN] ("GPU Enhanced Neuronal Network"), a library for simulating spiking neural networks on GPUs (and CPUs).

### Sponsor Talks

> Tony Chapman and Evelina Gabasova presented sponsor talks from [UKRI-EPSRC] and the [Society of Research Software Engineering], respectively.

Reviewer 5: I think I agree with all your other suggestions, but I think this comma should stay :stuck_out_tongue: 

(I'm clearly focussing on the important issues here :laughing: .)

> Tony Chapman and Evelina Gabasova presented sponsor talks from [UKRI-EPSRC] and the [Society of Research Software Engineering], respectively.

Author: Yeah sorry @dc2917, overruled on this one.

[Sherman Lo]: https://blog.hpc.qmul.ac.uk/intro-sherman-lo.html
[Queen Mary University of London]: https://www.qmul.ac.uk/its/its-research/team-members/research-software-engineer-rse-team/
[Mahmoud Abdelrazek]: https://www.razekmh.dev
[University College of London]: https://www.ucl.ac.uk/advanced-research-computing/research-software-engineers
[Louise Bowler]: https://www.kcl.ac.uk/people/louise-bowler
[King's College London]: https://docs.er.kcl.ac.uk/research_software_engineering/
[Jamie Knight]: https://profiles.sussex.ac.uk/p415734-james-knight
[EPSRC]: https://www.ukri.org/councils/epsrc/
[GeNN]: http://genn-team.github.io
[Advanced Research Computing Centre]: https://www.ucl.ac.uk/advanced-research-computing/
[UKRI-EPSRC]: https://www.ukri.org/councils/epsrc/
[Society of Research Software Engineering]: https://society-rse.org/

## RSE Team Presentations

The [Imperial College RSE Team] was well-represented at the workshop, with four of us presenting a talk or a poster. Each poster involved a 1-2 minute lightning talk introducing the poster and inviting the attendees to come talk.

> Adrian D'Alessandro presented a poster on [The HPC and RSE Experience Programme], an initiative by the [Imperial College Research Computing Service] to provide an early career entry-point into RTP careers. The programme is a six-month job working as an RSE and working alongside the HPC system administrators and user support staff. This presentation was taken as an opportunity to share the idea in the hope that other universities would also start similar programmes of their own.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Adrian D'Alessandro presented a poster on [The HPC and RSE Experience Programme], an initiative by the [Imperial College Research Computing Service] to provide an early career entry-point into RTP careers. The programme offers the opportunity to spend six-months working as an RSE within the Research Computing Service, and working alongside the HPC system administrators and user support staff. This presentation was taken as an opportunity to share the idea in the hope that other universities would also start similar programmes of their own.
```

[Advanced Research Computing Centre]: https://www.ucl.ac.uk/advanced-research-computing/
[UKRI-EPSRC]: https://www.ukri.org/councils/epsrc/
[Society of Research Software Engineering]: https://society-rse.org/
<!-- markdown-link-check-disable -->
<!-- turing.ac.uk has some sort of DDOS protection -->
[Martin O'Reilly]: https://www.turing.ac.uk/people/researchers/martin-oreilly

> <!-- <!-- markdown-link-check-enable -->

Reviewer: Is this a typo? I wonder if it will prevent re-enabling link-checking after this point?

```suggestion
<!-- markdown-link-check-enable -->
```
